genetically engineered crops in
agriculture a worldwide experiment on
people animals and nature cultivation of
genetically engineered crops like soy
maize cotton or canola have far-reaching
consequences 90% of genetically
engineered crops belong to the corporate
agricultural group Monsanto the
restaurant price ingenta DuPont
via and others genetic manipulation of
crops can have uncontrollable
consequences the function of genomes is
only partially understood but foreign
genes are still introduced into crops
these genetically engineered crops are
widely cultivated outdoors where they
cannot be controlled
currently 90% of GE cultivation occurs
in the Americas particularly in the USA
Argentina Brazil and Canada it seems
researchers have forgotten that
genetically engineered crops one
southside can no longer be controlled
like they could in the lab GE crops can
self-replicate and pass on their new
characteristics to neighboring crops
penetrating the fields of farmers who
want to cultivate their crops without
genetic engineering adverse from the
genetic engineering lobby claim
genetically engineered crops produce
higher yields but this marketing mantra
is a complete hoax it has been shown
that crop yields for GE crops are no
higher than normal crops but farmers
must buy more expensive patented
genetically engineered seeds each year
this forces them to become dependent on
corporate giants but that's not all
genetic engineering Giants also produce
pesticides and herbicides there are two
characteristic traits of genetically
engineered crops they're either
resistant to herbicides in which case
the genetic engineering company itself
produces the suitable herbicide or the
genetically engineered crop emits an
insecticide whether or not the crops are
resistant to weed killer or give off
poisonous gases not only weeds or pests
are eliminated after the beneficial
fueled growth and some living creatures
are killed as well but nature adapts so
pests and weeds develop resistance to
pesticides and that means that
increasing amounts of stronger
pesticides will be used especially grave
consequences are observed in this
respect and monocultures for example in
South America rainforests and other
natural landscapes are destroyed every
day to make room for genetically
engineered monocultures and pasture
at the same time the soil and
groundwater are poison on top of Earth
the genetic engineering Lobby claims
genetically engineered crops can help to
reduce world hunger genetic engineering
is not the answer there is enough food
on earth the problem is that it's not
distributed fairly but the fact is that
most genetically engineered crops find
their way into the livestock chain so
they end up as meat or dairy products in
supermarkets
along with all the destructive effects
on the environment
one last awkward question remains how do
genetically engineered crops affect
humans and animals the answer is no one
knows therefore it's important for you
to carefully consider which products you
buy get informed and get involved
because our world is not a testing
ground